all right why statistics statistics the
practice of science of collecting and
analyzing numerical data in large ones
why
study statistics at all why do we have a
Federal Statistical system why a Census
Bureau what what good is statistics to
answer this question let's first talk
about something else why a microscope
well a microscope is used for studying
things that are as the name may imply
microscopic microscopic so small fine is
to be visible or in distinction without
a use a little scope you need to look at
something that's really really tiny too
small for your eye to see any blow out
this turns out to be really really handy
if you want to study cells for example
like bacteria you want to understand
food poisoning you want to understand
disease you want to understand how
viruses spread you got to be able to
actually look at them to see them if you
can understand how big they are how
small they are what their shapes are
what their form is if you can get the
form you can get the function and you
can get some understanding you want to
build a microchip you need a microscope
now that means that a microscope is
really really useful for looking at
things that are too small now let's
consider the kinds of questions that we
answer with statistics we talk about
things like the population of the United
States the population of the United
States in 2010 there were 308 million
people in the United States you can't
possibly know everyone
you can't talk to you you can't you as a
person you don't have enough time in
your life to sit down with everybody and
learn their story but you know every 10
years or so we at the Census Bureau ask
a few questions of everybody age sex
birth where you live these are important
things to know and with just those few
questions we can learn an enormous
amount you want to know where the
hospitals go you need to know what
cities have a large aging population you
want to know where the schools go you
need to know where the cities in what
neighborhoods have a lot of really young
people these kinds of questions as all
kinds of things you know birth rates
death rates one understand the labor
force that's a
statistical question you understand
employment you want to understand
earnings you understand national
earnings you want understand these
questions accidents rates all kinds of
things that we publish statistics on
that we measure statistics they're all
things that are too big to see at one
time they're too big for your eye to see
308 million people all of different ages
all different sexes we've got accidents
happening spread out across a country of
literally millions of square miles it's
too big to take in but aha a Federal
Statistical system statistics we can
take a slice of that country viva
licious we can take a slice of the
United States of America and we can
shrink it down to a screen about yay you
know got a bunch of them back here when
you can take a big thing and shrink it
down small enough to study to understand
or at least part of it that's useful
that's statistics so you won't
understand it's something that's too
small like a cell or a microchip you
need to blow it up you use a microscope
statistics is a macroscope that's why
statistics
you